campus. Was Pinky Downs there yet? Pinky
was in Temple, Texas at that time, but he had a
daughter named Gray, Gray Downs, and she was a good
looking thing. And Bobby Early, who was my partner
in the tennis courts, used to go with Gray. He used
to go to Temple. And Pinky at that time was still a
big Aggie supporter, but he was in Temple then.
Now, was Lupo, did he have a place? Yeah, Lupo had
his bookshop up at the North Gate. And he had some
nickname. Old Army? Old Army Lou? Yeah, Old Army
Lou. And he was a good friend of Tiger Teague's, I
remember. But this is before they both became
famous. Yeah, right. But he had a bookstore, I'd
say. Who were, did any famous people come to visit
while you were? Yes. Roosevelt did. Describe
that, please. You can see a picture of it. Yes, sir.
I just did. Right. Roosevelt, Eliot Roosevelt was
on the Board of Regents, President Roosevelt's
son. President Roosevelt's son, Eliot, was on the
Board, and he was the one that got Roosevelt there.
And the governor of Texas then was Jimmy Allred.
And so they came in this open touring car, and he
reviewed the Corps, Roosevelt did. And I think
they had a stand where he could hold onto the stand
while he reviewed the Corps. Were you and your
buddies aware of how crippled he was. Oh, yes. Oh,
yeah. You were here? Oh, yeah, we did. Ed Lee, who
was in that picture, Ed was a handsome guy. He was
the captain of the basketball team, one of my best
friends. But he was the corps commander when
Roosevelt was there. And he's in the picture with
Roosevelt. But we were all awed by the fact that the
President of the United States would come down to
review the Corps. Did he make a speech? He must
have, but I don't recall it. I just recall it in
passing in review because I was captain of E
Battery and
presenting arms before Roosevelt. I remember
that. I wanted to be sure that I didn't stick my
saber in the ground, you know. Was he on the campus
very long? I don't think he was there very long. I
think it was certainly a one-day visit. Did many
people from off campus come to see him? Yes, a lot of
people came for the review, for this review. Did
any other famous people come to visit?
Let me see who else they had. They had some famous
bands that came to play for the Chordances. Such
as? I think Tommy Dorsey, among others. And let me
see. Tommy Dorsey and
there was a I can't think of it right now.
You go to summer camp which year? It was in my junior
year. After your junior year? Yeah, right after
your junior year, between your junior year and
senior year. Where did you go? Went to Camp Bullis
and we fired, to save money at that time, the field
artillery had French 75s. And to save money, the
Army had 37 millimeters on top of the 75, so that the
shells were actually 37 millimeters. But you had
the same thing, the firing and then correcting
fire and so forth. And that summer camp duty lasted
how long? I think it was either six or eight weeks,
but right outside of San Antonio. How did that
compare to Corps life? Well, I think core life
prepared you for this. You lived in tents, and you
had, I think, four guys to a tent, but there was no
difference in chain of command or anything.
And most people really enjoyed summer camp. Was it
hot? Oh, yes. San Antonio at this time of the year,
you know, it was...
After the summer camp, that's when the attack
officers evaluated people and that's when they
decided who would be captain or whatever. So you
didn't know when you went to summer camp that you
were going to be company commander? Oh no, no, no.
That wasn't decided until after that. Did you
guys, did you Aggies feel at summer camp that you
were better prepared than the ROTC boys from other
places?
Well, let's see. At our camp, I think we were the
only ones there. I think we were just A&M people
there. So who went to camp from A&M that year?
Actually,
all the juniors. All the juniors. Just the
juniors. The juniors went. 300 maybe? 400? At
least, I
wouldn't say it was that many because our senior
class had a total of 400 and there were others that
went to other places.
Now when you were at A&M, Everybody was in the Corps
all four years? Oh yeah, everybody was in the
Corps. All four years? All four years, right. But
was everybody getting a commission? No, no. And
actually there were some guys that were called day
dodgers who lived in Bryan. They weren't in the
Corps.
But everybody was eligible for a commission who
graduated. And so when I graduated, I was
commissioned a second lieutenant in the Field
Artillery Reserve. As far as you and your buddies
felt, which of the branches of the Army were the
most prestigious? What was the best to be in?
Well, I really don't think at A&M anybody looked at
the best there. They looked at what people were
interested in, like the cavalry. They had the
horse-drawn cavalry then, and people that liked
to ride in the cavalry or in the field artillery
because the field artillery was horse-drawn. And
that
was one of the reasons I liked the field artillery
in addition to the fact that my uncle had been, was a
captain, at that time was a captain in the field
artillery. So did you ride a good bit? Oh, yeah.
Where were the horses kept? They had stables.
Where? A lot of horses. They were over on the other
side of the railroad tracks, and you could check
the horses out on the weekends, and we used to ride
on the weekends. Where did you ride? Well, there
were big planes out there that you could ride and
really race and cavalry charge and all that sort of
thing. Was it on college property? Oh, yeah, it was
on college property. It was on the other side of the
railroad track, on the west side. But that was a lot
of fun. You had asked me to think about things that
really had prepared me in later life, and one of
them was horseback riding. And this has what
happened in 1955. I was part of a group that went to
Yemen and negotiated a deal with the old king of
Yemen. And
Life magazine wrote a story about it, which I've
told you here. But the pertinent part is that as we
flew to Cairo and then to Djibouti. And the King
sent his airplane over to Dakota or DC-3 and picked
us up. And we flew into Taiz, which was his summer
palace. And there were no hotels there at all. And
we stayed at the guest house. But when we called on
the king, I told him through the interpreter that I
admired the stallions that I had seen coming up to
Taiz. And he asked me through the interpreter, did
I like to ride? And I said, yes, I did. And so the next
morning, he sent the fieriest stallion he had down
there for me to ride, a horse called Rod.
Fortunately, the horse had a snaffle bit and a curb
bit. After fighting the horse for some time, I was
finally able to get on him and ride him off. He was up
on the balcony watching, and the king sent his
horse down every morning for me to ride. So we were
there six weeks. We finally got the concession.
And so after the concession, our interpreter
said, do you know why people got this concession? I
said, no. He said, because you could ride that
horse. And he figured that if, according to the
interpreter, that if I had not lied about being
able to ride, that we possibly would observe the
things. So here, there was this deal in Yemen. Oh,
thank you, thank you,
thank you.
But here's this Life magazine story in December of
55. Ah, splendid.
Splendid. But it's directly related to how did A&M
help you in some
fashion? The fact that I could ride that horse was
But you were a horseman before you got to A&M. You
could ride. Yeah, I could ride before then. I could
ride before then. But actually, I took in a field
artillery at that time. You had to jump and so
forth, and they taught you. They taught you
jumping and so forth. Although I could ride, I
really learned the finer points of riding at A&M.
Back in the spring of your junior year, you must
have bought some senior boots. Right. Where did
you get them? I got them at Lucchesi's, I think. Do
you remember what they cost?
I think it was $75. I'm not sure. And what did you
feel like when you put them on to wear for the first
time officially at Final Review that spring when
you were getting ready to be a senior? Oh, I
thought, you know, this is all that problem of
being a fish and so forth has been worth it. And you
bought your senior ring. Right. Do you remember
what it cost? I don't recall. I remember I got it
from Fort Worth. I believe Balfour. I'm not sure. I
think that was the name of it. Do you have any good
ring stories? Yes. I've got one.
I lost my ring and I was on a Southwest Airlines
flight to, let me get you the story. Don't forget
you're plugged in. Oh, I better take this off. So
you lost your ring. Was it on the Southwest
Airlines? Right, it was on the Southwest
Airlines. Was it ever found? No, and actually I
wrote to Herb Kelleher, head of Southwest, and
believe it or not he wrote this letter back.
How splendid, how splendid. They never found it.
Did you buy another one? No, I haven't. So that was
your only... That was my... All right, do you have
any other ring stories of where you were somewhere
on the other side of the world or something? Yeah,
that's in this write-up. I say it in this that...
They knew it was an Aggie ring? Oh, yeah, yeah.
They...
Actually, I was in Algeria on a consulting job when
the war in Algeria was going on, and I was staying at
a hotel there in Algiers. and everybody had
evacuated. There were lots of bombing and so forth
going on during that revolution. And there were
just a few people in the hotel, and I was at the bar
one night, and was sitting there and ordered a
drink. And this guy saw my ring and
he said, what class were you in? And I told him. And
we introduced ourselves. I forget what class he
was in, but we were the only about four people in our
hotel.
But he saw the ring.
When you and your classmates were getting ready to
graduate from Texas A&M, What kind of world did you
think you were going to be going into and how well
prepared did you and your friends think you were? I
thought we were well prepared. It was actually the
beginning of a second depression, 37 and 38. So
jobs were very scarce at that time. And so we knew
that
we would...
I'd say most of us thought that we were well
prepared to be in a competitive world. And
I thought I'd be better prepared if I got another
degree from MIT, which turned out to be true.
But the A&M experience, I think, prepared you for a
competitive world. Now you graduated in the
spring of 37, so there was no war yet. No. And the
tough thing was simply economics, jobs and paying
the bills and so forth. How did you get admitted to
MIT? Did you think that up or did someone recommend
No, I applied. But did an A&M faculty member
suggest you? No, this was my idea all the time. As I
say, I had wanted to get a graduate degree from MIT
all the time. So I applied and was accepted. And I
remember there were several other A&M graduates
in my class. One of them was Dr. Silvey, was the head
of the Electroengineering Department. And his
son, his name was Silvey, he applied, and he was
accepted. But I think all of us that applied, I
think there were about five or six that applied for
MIT, and we were all accepted, which showed that
that they regarded the academic background. When
you got there, did you all do well academically up
there? We all did well. We all graduated, got our
degrees. Describe the formalities of your senior
spring. Commencement, the final review, and so
forth. Right. Well, we had a ring dance. At Sebesa?
At Sebesa Hall, right. We had a ring dance, and I
think I had Lillian Street down as my guest, and
then we had final review. Do you remember who the
reviewing officer was? I don't remember who he
was. It was on the drill field. Right, it was on the
drill field. It's the same as it is now. Did any
family or close friends come? My sister came. She
came, and she was actually the date of a good friend
of mine. And she came. My mother didn't come. What
about commencement? Where was it held? That was
held in... Gann Hall, which was an impressive,
impressive thing. At
that point, how well prepared did you feel A&M had
made you? I thought at commencement, I thought I
was where I wanted to be at that time,
competitively and so forth. What creates this
Aggie spirit, Aggie pride? What builds that? I've
given some thought to that and I think what it did in
my era was the fact that as fish you went through a
very tough year in which you shared a lot of
experiences, some of which were painful and some,
though, which you had a lot of fun doing. And that, I
think that, plus the fact that you were they
emphasized, I'd say, duty on a country, which you
never forgot. And
that bonding is somewhat different than other
schools. Are there some key the events of being in
the Corps and so forth. But are there some other
events that contribute to that bonding?
Well, I would say your
relationships with whatever team you were on. A
sort of special people you can't forget. I'll
never forget the guys I was on the basketball team
with. And
I might just tell you a connection to that story.
When we went over to play Centenary one time in
basketball, We went in the coach's cars. We were
unloading our baggage at the Washington Urey
Hotel, and one of the bellboys, a black bellboy,
was helping us unload. And he looked at me and he
said, what is you? Is you the mascot?
I told him, no, I actually played on the team.
Did you all have, in your day, did you all go to
muster? Oh, yes. Oh, yes. Where was it held? Let's
see. Muster was,
I think it was held at the administration
building, in front of the administration
building. The, you're saying the? The old
administration building. The old, okay. I think
it was held there, but I'm really not sure. But at
that point, I read out the names of the guys who had
died that year. And by the time you were a senior,
was Silver Tap still staying in your room? Oh,
yeah. It was still the same. It was still the same.
At commencement, was every name called and every
hand shaken? Oh, yes. Yes, at commencement, every
name was called. You went up on the stage and Dr.
Walton gave you a diploma, and shook your hand. And
are those shared experiences key to Aggie spirit?
I think it's part of it, yeah. Of course, other
colleges and so forth have similar type things,
except that I think the difference is the hardship
part that you go through at the very beginning. All
right, now we've got about a half dozen questions,
and these are all the serious ones. Looking back,
what did you learn at A&M that has been important in
your life? Summarize what being an Aggie, why it's
important.
The important things, I think, of being an Aggie
was
is one that you had an excellent education,
excellent basic education.
Two, that you went through a training period in
which
certain moral values were emphasized, such as
duty, honor, country, and truth. so that in the
real world, people who know about Aggies, people
who are Aggies, know that when they hire a guy, he
will
have certain qualities. One, that he's got a good
basic education. Two, that he's able to get along
with other men. And three, that character has been
emphasized in his training. I
found this to be true in my relations with Aggie
employers, but also with the executives of other
companies.
If you were a consultant to Texas A&M's leaders
today, What advice would you give them regarding
A&M's future?
Well, I was a member of the Century Council and was a
member of the Target 2000 project in which I was
exposed to the answer to your question. And I think
that
both of those reports really were pretty
comprehensive as to A&M, what they should follow.
And I think Dr. Bowen has carried that out pretty
well. And of course, Earl Rudder was probably the
greatest president A&M ever had, and he carried
forward the things that had been recommended. For
example, though, how large should A&M's
enrollment become? As of right now, I think the
enrollment should be static, 40,000 plus or
whatever, because I think if you try to increase it
more, you diminish the quality of teaching there.
And how should the students be selected? I think
the students should be elected on a competitive
basis, and there should be certain minimum
qualities. Whereas I understand the problem of
the minorities and
certainly want to emphasize diversity, but I
think that the standards for them should be the
same as anybody else.
So there's a difference of opinion on that, but
that's the way I feel. I've been on the Easterwood
Scholarship Board, and we've had discussions
about that. We've had some candidates come up who
were submitted to get scholarships.
And somebody, let's say, that had some minority
applicant who had an SAT of 1050, even though he
might have been in the top 10% of his class, and
maybe in a school that is somewhat inferior as to
its academic status, it hasn't been really fair to
have that particular person, to me it seems, to go
up against
somebody who has a 1250. But what I would think is to
make some arrangement where the person goes to a
junior college under some sort of a Otherwise,
he's going to be, he'll flunk out and be
discouraged and probably end up on drugs. But I
think the junior college thing is the way to go,
probably. what parts or what programs, what
activities are dearest to your heart, and I'll
phrase that in a different way, if you were going to
make a truly substantial gift to Texas A&M, what
would you want that gift to be used to do?
I think that particular gift would be the
Petroleum Engineering School there is, and of
course the U.S. News is rated number one in the
country, number two is Texas, number three is
Stanford. But I'd say the gift would be to the
Petroleum Engineering School to maintain its
standard.
Okay, fun. What is your favorite Aggie Good Bull
story?
There's gotta be some